Thoughts from around 2022-07-16 

Seeing reference to first web page URL at CERN -- in science of supervillains book called 
"How to Take Over the World: Practical Schemes and Scientific Solutions for the Aspiring Supervillain"
by Ryan North.

The first web page's URL:
http://info.cern.ch/hypertext/WWW/TheProject.html

Thinking on pointers to content and the meaning of URLs/URIs.

Can have pointer as a location (or path to a location, as steps of retrieval).

Can have pointer that is a hash of the content.

Can have a pointer that is a subset of the content like title or author or year or an embedded UUID.
Or can have a pointer to a hash of a subset of the content.

Can have a pointer to a metadata object with title, author, year, UUID, and so on
-- which then points to the actual content somehow like by location or hash.

Any other ways of pointing? Perhaps algorithms or such..

Can also just embed the content directly.

Key issue is that content can still have utility if it is slightly different
than what originally pointed to.

That is why hashes are brittle, because a long document with a typo fix
will have a totally different hash -- but for all practical purposes
for most people it is a substantially equivalent document od the same utility.

This referring to a document by a title or author or UUID or a URL (handle)
may be more useful than referring by hash if the contents can slightly change.
But for big changes, then things get confusing if the title or URL or UUID stays the same.

May be useful to have both references and hashes.

In general, may be best to go beyond simple location-like URLs for pointers
to use some sort of footnote-like object with more metadata about the resource.
Just like scientific papers have a reference list that includes a bunch of information
about a paper like title, author, year, publisher, and maybe other information.

Examples for book citation including publisher (which is like a URL location in a way):
https://apaformat.org/apa-book-citation/

But one line of text for a URL is convenient and easy to cut and paste.
But maybe it is limiting?
