How can we work together towards a common goal?
    Who are "we"?

    What common goals should we have?
        Thunderbird serves its end users well
        Thunderbird works in the way they like it
        Thunderbird project is a rewarding place for contributors

    What do we want Thunderbird to be?
        Driven by Company and its employees hired by managers appointed by TB constructively
            How much influence would community have in that structure?
            How would community stop bad decisions by staff?
        Driven by Community
            Benefits?
                Ideas and insight and patches will come from all over the Internet
                Anybody who cares and wants to contribute constructively to a solution can do so

    How can we achieve our goals?
        Respect each other's needs
        Discover and resolve pain points with solutions
                How can we discover and resolve pain points?
                    Actively interview random end users
                    Ask them where they need improvements
                        How would we ask them?
                            Survey
                            Ask for stories
                                What are tools for collecting stories?
                                    NarraFirma
                    Fulfill expressed needs
                        How much money will this take?
                        Who decides which of many needs to fulfill?
                            Discussion
                        How do we meet needs?
                            Develop single best solution
                                Is is feasible to find one best solution?
                                Why is this better than multiplicity?
                                    Only way to make progress
                                        Why?
                                            Unproductive torn between A & B
                                            
                            Why can't commercial software meet needs?
                                Take it or leave it attitude of companies
                                    Is this true for all companies?
                                    Do non-commercial groups do this too?
                                Impossibility to add new features
                                    What of tools supporting plugins?
                                Polishing is impossible with closed source

                            Ensure Open Source
                                What are examples open source success?
                                    Watches
                                    Routers
                                    Supercomputers
                                    Cloud
                                    Linux
                                        Would Linux have been successful if only a desktop OS?
                                            No
                                            Why?
                                                Less contributors
                                                        Why are contributors important?
                                                            They build things that are useful to end users.
                                            Would a manifesto and a business plan have been enough otherwise?
                                                No
                                                    What are examples of such failures?

                    Support users fulfilling their own needs
                        What prevents that now?
                            Roadblocks
                                What are examples of roadblocks?

        Listen to each other
            What is the current state of listening?
                Completely lost on tb-planning
                Lost around the world

            Why should we listen?
                Need to distinguish open source from open projects
                    What is an open project?
                        An open project is open to contributors everywhere
                        An open project supports users "scratching their itch"
                        An open project listens to contributors
                            Does an open project listen to users?
                        An open source license is not enough
                            What is an example?much 
                                MS Outlook for Windows under MIT license but managed by Microsoft would not be much better

            How to listen to the community?
                Use Dialogue Mapping with IBIS
                    + Well-defined methodology
                    + Easy to understand for users
                    + Helps explore "Wicked" problems
                    - Unfamiliar
                    - Benefits from adept practitioner
                    - Not supported natively in Thunderbird
                        How could IBIS be added to THunderbird?
                            As a plugin
                                + Can be developed modularly by any person
                                - Few people may try it
                            Natively
                                + Helps with widespread adoption
                                + More secure
                                - Complicates an already complex codebase
                                - Requires collective buy-in
                                
                Use a community-driven process of steps
                    What are the steps?
                        1. Problem statement on tb-planning
                            Why is it called tb-planning?
                                Supposed to be the place where the plans for the future TB are discussed and made
                        2. TB community discusses problem statement
                            What does this entail?
                                People suggest ideas, share insights about pros and cons of various solutions, based on their experience
                                    Why are diverse experiences important?
                                        Multiple viewpoints help to make wiser decisions
                                        See point above on open projects
                                        People can build on each others ideas
                        3. After time period TB Council reviews the discussion and makes a decision
                            What is a typical time period for discussions?
                                1 to 2 weeks
                                    Is this always enough?
                                    Who decides when to end discussion?
                            What is the criterion for a decision?
                                The most reasonable solution should be chosen that best serves the goal
                                    Who decides what is a reasonable solution?
                                    Who decides which solution best serves the goal?
                        4. The solution is implemented
                            Who will implement the solution?
                                TB company / MZLA Tech Inc employees then go and implement that solution
                                A contributor/volunteer is permitted to implement it
                                    Who provides permission?
                                    What are the consequences for working on the problem without permission?

                    What is a prerequisite of such discussions?
                        The discussions MUST be civil
                        Do not attack other people's point of views
                        Do not shoot each other's ideas and viewpoints down
                            At what point does constructive criticism come in?
                        Accepting the needs of others as a given
                        Rational and constructive in nature
                        Support finding the best solution together
                        Transparency
                            Why is transparency important?
                                Transparency needed to weight in or contribute ideas or insight
                                Otherwise community is *systematically* locked out
                                Knowing what's going on is first step in any useful contribution
                                Also needed for test of community-driven process

                    When is the community-driven approach appropriate?
                        Big decisions
                            Who decides what is a big decision?
                        Any decision that the community cares about
                            How is it decided that the community cares about something?
                                How significant does the caring have to be to be actionable?
                        Not small questions
                            How do we know something is a small question?
                            What happens if we later decide a small question is really a big one?
                    
                    + Hopefully a solution will emerge that considers everybody's needs
                    + Will be superior to closed source software
                    + Everybody's contribution is welcome
                        How will problematical contributions be weeded out?
                    + Decisions are made by many people
                    + Decisions consider the needs of many people
